Now it's time for the Anchormen podcast
with Matt Gates and Dan Ball.
Good evening and welcome to the Ankorman
podcast powered by One American News.
I'm Matt Gates, host of the Matt Gates
show. We're every week night, 9 Eastern,
6 Pacific. And today we're doing
something a little bit different. We've
partnered with Zero Hedge, a great
website for their Zero Hedge debates.
Zero Hedge Debates brings smart folks
together to challenge conventional
wisdom and discuss the major policy
questions of the day on digital
platforms. Tonight, we ask this
question, should the US support Israel
in taking out Iran's leadership? Taking
the affirmative in this debate is Robert
Spencer, director of Jihad Watch. Taking
the negative is Dave Smith, host of Part
of the Problem podcast. I'm former
Congressman Matt Gates. I'll be your
moderator. The zero hedge debates begin
now. Each side is afforded a 4-minute
opening statement and we begin with
Robert Spencer.
Thanks, Matt. Uh, you know, obviously
nobody wants to go to war with Iran. The
problem is in all of these discussions
that I'm seeing about this issue, nobody
is actually talking about the fact that
not just one side gets to decide whether
the war will begin or not. And it may
well be that Iran will attack the United
States and it won't be up to anyone
whether we go in to fight Iran or not.
At the same time, nobody is envisioning
the kind of quagmire that we had in Iraq
and Afghanistan. Uh nobody is talking
about boots on the ground. There is talk
about regime change, but that's become a
very charged term. It doesn't ne doesn't
necessarily mean some sort of
wrongheaded, misguided, unfocused
project to bring a political system to a
people that doesn't want it or
understand it. And so what we have in
this situation is quite different. The
president, as a matter of fact, just
today said that he was talking to Tucker
Carlson and he said, "Are you okay with
nuclear weapons being in the hands of
Iran?" And Trump went on to say, and he
sort of didn't like that. And of course,
nobody really likes that. And Trump
said, "If that's okay with you, you and
I have a difference."
It's not just Israel that has said that
the Islamic Republic of Iran is working
on nuclear weapons. This is something
that has been abundantly uh established
by investigations of the International
Atomic Energy Agency which is of course
uh an arm of the UN works closely with
several UN agencies and the UN is no
friend of Israel. The UN as a matter of
fact has a standing item. The UN Human
Rights Council has uh item seven on its
agenda every time it meets to condemn
alleged human rights abuses of Israel.
So the IAEA working closely with the UN
is not likely to exaggerate an Iranian
nuclear threat, but the IAEA says that
the Iranians are enriching uranium at a
rate that is far beyond peaceful
purposes and that this is indeed an
imminent threat. And so I hope that the
president doesn't have to strike in
Iran. I hope that it doesn't come to
that. He's still talking today about
bringing Iranians to Washington to talk
with him at the White House and he's the
great dealmaker. Maybe he can do it
again. At the same time, it may become
unfortunately necessary for the real
peace of the world to strike Iran's
nuclear program in tandem with Israel
and to take it out so that this regime
cannot endanger the life of the world as
it has thus far in numerous ways. Now,
this doesn't necessarily mean regime
change, but if it did come about, the
first people who would welcome it would
be the Iranians themselves who very have
made it abundantly clear that they hate
this regime. In Afghanistan, they love
the Taliban. In Iraq, they couldn't wait
to get to establish Sharia. In Iran,
it's different. Thank you. Thank you
very much, Mr. Spencer. Dave Smith, take
it away.
Um, I just I'm honestly almost just in
disbelief almost o over this entire
debate. I can't even believe that we're
here in 2025 after just electing Donald
Trump, winning every swing state and the
popular vote that we're actually having
2003 all over again with all of the same
characteristics, just blatant lies,
complete misrepresentation of the
evidence, a bunch of different
fabricated justifications for the war
that aren't even coherent. Um the truth
is that the um many people No one wants
war with Iran are the first words we
hear. No one wants war with Iran. You
sure about that? Iran has been on
America's list of countries to overthrow
since at least 2001. We have a four-star
general on the record who told us that
he saw these plans. George W. Bush put
Iran on the axis of evil after 9/11 even
though they had absolutely nothing to do
with 9/11. He then invaded the two
countries that touch it and destroyed
the two countries. And you're going to
sit here and say no one no one desires
war in Iran is anybody who knows
anything about DC knows that there are
very powerful force. Not a not a single
honest Trumper MAGA person in America
would say that there aren't powerful
forces that have wanted war with Iran
for years. And the fact of the matter is
that Iran does not have nuclear weapons.
the the director of national
intelligence released her annual threat
assessment two months ago. She
reaffirmed it very recently. There
there's just no evidence of it. And even
as you quote the IAEA, uh they they came
out and said that that Iran is not
developing nuclear weapons. They have a
latent nuclear deterrent. It was in no
way something that justified a first
strike from Israel. And the the idea
that this regime change is going to be
different. Well, why does it feel so
similar already? It's based on a lie of
a nuclear threat. We're talking about
liberating the people. I mean, I guess
maybe one of the differences I I spot,
Matt, I bet you would uh find this kind
of funny, but the Israelis are posting
pictures with the son of the Shaw. So, I
I guess we're we're making the world
safe for monarchy now. I guess we're in
the business of of spreading monarchy to
the Middle East. Well, I don't see any
indication that that's going to work out
any better than spreading democracy
worked. And either way, it's not
America's business. We we have to
appreciate look as you even mentioned
there in your opening. It's like you lay
out the argument now. We don't know
what's going to happen. Look, America,
the Israelis will sit here and say that
Iran attacked them on October 7th
because it was their proxy that came and
attacked them. Well, by that same logic,
is Israel not our proxy? I mean, not but
that's exactly the relationship, but we
certainly fund and arm them. We're
giving them intelligence cover.
Evidently, Trump was negotiating to
distract them from this attack coming
in. And yet, we don't know now. We have,
at least, as of 2007, the Pentagon told
George W. Bush that we do not have
escalation dominance in a war with Iran,
meaning they can hit so many of our
bases and our embassies in the region is
a huge risk. And what's going to happen
then? You know, it's easy. They all
start off, oh, there won't be troops on
the ground. It won't be one of the bad
regime changes. It'll be a good one.
What happens when a few Americans get
killed in this? You think Donald Trump's
gonna take that and not start bombing
the hell out of this country? This is so
incredibly risky for for and and and
just to be clear here, and I'll I'll end
on this. I just can't overstate this.
When I say this is so incredibly risky,
what we're risking is the United States
of America, and I don't just mean like
because Iran could beat us in a
conflict, but honestly, ask yourself,
let's say you're wrong. You know, I
don't know where you stood on all these
last uh regime change wars, but I know
that almost everybody who's trying to
sell this one was catastrophically wrong
about all the last ones. What's the
chance you're wrong here? That that and
when I say you're wrong, I mean that
regime change doesn't work out well.
That actually it becomes a disaster.
That actually even though the people
didn't like the government, I don't
know, this radical government that has
ruled since 1979 with all of the most
powerful governments. Okay, I'll I'll
wrap up real quick. With all of the most
powerful governments in the world trying
to overthrow them, they've still hung
on. Who's to say that another radical
group doesn't go out there? And we're
not in the position we were in 2003.
We're $37 trillion in debt. Our our
country is completely divided in a way
we haven't been before. We have Donald
Trump needs all the political capital he
can right now to get his immigration uh
issues through and that's all. Okay. So,
Mr. Spencer, I want to pin you down on
on uh precisely the position you're
taking here. Do you believe that there
is a basis right now? In your opening
statement, you made a lot of uh
characterizations about what could
happen and predictions about potential
developments in the conflict. But right
now, do you believe the United States
should support Israel in taking out
Iran's leadership? And uh c can you give
me just a quick answer to that question?
Well, it depends on what you mean by
support. You know, in World War II,
Franklin Roosevelt did not get the
United States involved in the war until
after Pearl Harbor. But he did
everything he could to help the British
before that. There was the Len Lease
program. There was the propaganda war.
There were all kinds of ways in which he
was aiding the side of freedom against
the Nazis before Pearl Harbor, but he
didn't get involved until Pearl Harbor.
I think that's a perfectly uh So is that
where you think the US should be today?
I just want to understand for clarity
the sake of your position. Are you
saying we should be in a lend lease
provide weapons to Israel or do you
believe the United States should
directly be involved in striking uh
assets in Iran? Exactly what I'm saying.
Okay. And the idea that this is some
sort of betrayal of MAGA, as uh Dave was
suggesting, is ignorant of the fact that
Trump in his escalator speech, his first
political speech, announcing he was
going to run for president in 2015. He
says, "I'm not going to allow Iran to
get nuclear weapons." Now, I don't know
what people thought he meant by that. He
reiterated that many times over the
years, and now he's saying the same
thing. And you've got a regime that
routine that actually has ordered its
people every Friday in the mosques all
over Iran they have to chant death to
America as well as death to Israel. And
it's important to note this is not just
braggadosio or sloganering. The
Ayatollah actually said not long ago
that the situation between America and
Iran is this. This is November 1st 2023.
When you chant death to America, it is
not just a slogan. It's a policy. And
it's a long-standing policy, in fact,
because it goes back to 1979 to the
seizure of the embassy, the taking of
the hostages, the the the taking of the
CIA agent, William F.Buckley, not the
National Review guy, another one. Uh who
the CIA agent, huh? Yeah. Well, you you
probably got a point there. But in any
case, uh, he was brutally tortured and
murdered by the Iranian regime in the
80s. His Bala is a wholly owned and
operated subsidiary of the Islamic
Republic of Iran, created by the Islamic
Revolutionary Guards Corps. 1983, they
killed 241 Marines in the barracks in
Beirut. You've got uh just a couple of
years ago, Tom Cotton asked defense
secretary Lloyd Austin uh has Iran
attacked any American interests,
American bases in the last few couple of
years? And how if so, how many times?
And Austin says 83 times. And Cotton
says, okay, how many times did the US
respond? And he said four. So that's 79
unanswered attacks from a power that is
chanting death to America saying it's a
policy, not just a slogan. And that
projects weakness. If we're I if you
just let that keep happening and never
respond, then you are exactly the same
thing that Dave is saying is going to
happen, but not in the way he envisions,
you're going to lose the United States.
Dave Smith, your answer to Iran deserves
it.
We're going to Well, we're going to lose
the United States. You're telling me
that militarily Iran is going to take
out the United States of America? The
idea is so preposterous. This is a
country that does not have an air force
capable of delivering weapons to us.
We're the most powerful country in the
history of the world. And this is a puny
third world country. Although, compared
to the other puny third world countries
we've been picking on, they're much much
tougher. But just think about this, man.
Everybody, the the war fever and the
drums are beating. Let calmer heads
prevail for a second. I just told you
that after 911, the war the war-hungry
George W. Bush put Iran on the list of
axis of evil and then invaded and
destroyed their two nextoor neighboring
countries. And your response was, "The
kids yell some chance, therefore they're
threatening us." I mean, let's get real
here, guys. Well, I I want to talk about
that threat real quick, Dave Smith,
because we saw the House chairman of the
Foreign Affairs Committee say uh in an
interview recently that however we
confront Iran today, it is at least
confronting an Iran without a nuclear
weapon. And and as messy and as bad as
all all those rough outcomes you
described, the argument just that I'm
presenting to you is, well, we
eventually have to confront Iran, so
better to do it now than later. Your
response and then we'll go to Mr.
Spencer. It's just absolutely
ridiculous. And like I said, all of the
intelligence indicates that they're not
trying to get a nuclear weapon anyway.
So, this is all like a it's all just
begging the question. It's like you have
to you have to like demonstrate that
they are actually attempting to get a
nuclear weapon before you can just make
that call. But, you know, as as the
great Scott Horton said the other day,
um you know, uh um Truman did not start
a war with the Soviets because they were
developing a nuke. and Johnson didn't
start a war with the Chinese communists
because they were developing a nuke. And
this idea that therefore it's okay to
just launch a war of aggression because
somebody else is developing a nuke. And
the wildest thing about it, Matt, as you
know, as everybody listening, I imagine
knows, there is one country in the
Middle East who has secretly developed
nuclear weapons and is not a member of
the non-prololiferation treaty, and
that's Israel. I mean, the nerve of them
to launch a war on these grounds. Iran
is in the non-prololiferation treaty and
is not developing nuclear weapons and
doesn't have nuclear weapons. Israel
does and lies to the world about it. And
this is their justification for for
launching a war that they want to drag
America into. I mean, wake up people.
Robert, is it hypocritical for Israel to
try to draw America into a war over a
secret nuclear weapons program when
Israel has a secret nuclear weapons
program? No, it certainly isn't. But the
we got to cover some other uh issues
here. Dave, you know, you're setting up
some very big straw men when I list the
several but not all of the attacks by
the Islamic Republic of Iran on the
United States and you respond by saying
and you say because some
say that we should nuke we should attack
them. Well, no. I will actually actually
I want to get Dave's answer to that
because that that was an argument.
Here's how the argument is often
presented. When has ev has appeasement
ever worked at deterring Iran? Robert
laid out a series of aggressive actions
from Iran. They're all accurate, by the
way. Uh so so when has appeasement ever
made them them more consiliatory?
Because we've tried appeasement a few
times and we those events have occurred
nonetheless.
Well, yeah, but what events are we even
talking about here? Like I'd highly
encourage people to go through and read
uh enough already by Scott Horton where
he goes through in details with all the
sources and footnotes there. you can
look through them for yourself as I have
that so many of the accusations of uh
Iran developing those uh uh roadside
bombs during the insurgency in Iraq were
complete nonsense. They were lies just
like all the other lies. What about the
launches on our bases that Robert
mentioned? The launch. What specific
attack are you talking about? In
northern Iraq, we had we had American We
had an American contractor killed. We've
had Americans uh wounded severely
because of Right. Right. Right. So when
So again though, it's like you frame
this as attacking the United States of
America when in reality what you're
talking about is the United States of
America illegally, aggressively invading
their neighboring country, handing half
the country to them and their influence.
Huh. I mean, Iran also invaded Iraq, so
they can't exactly get it. No, they're
No. Saddam Hussein Saddam Hussein
started that war and the US backed him.
Yeah. No, it was I mean, look, that that
was a war of of great tragedy. I I I
guess I'll allow Robert to to get in
here. And you know, Robert, is there a
point you want to make about, you know,
these these events being insufficiently
linked to the decisions of the of the
Iranian regime?
I'm not sure I understand the question.
What do you mean these events being ins
Well, you list out all these things that
you say Iran was involved in. We know
that that a lot of those were carried
out through Iranian proxy forces. I
think the point Dave is making is that
proxy forces? No, see, but this is the
thing, Matt. They say if any Shiite with
a rifle shoots anyone, that counts as
someone that that Iran attacked America.
And it's just nonsense. We don't hold
this standard. We don't hold this
standard with anybody else. We don't say
that like if America sold weapons to
some group that then they are our proxy
now and if they attack someone else with
those weapons, that's America attacking
them. Yes, we invaded Iraq and we
overthrew the uh the the government
which was the minority of the country,
right? There was a a Sunni minority with
a Shiite majority. We overthrew the
government and forced democracy on them
and then it a civil war broke out. Some
Shiites with guns were shooting at our
guys. Robert, your response. This is not
a matter of some Shiite with a rifle and
we say, "Oh, it's an Iranian proxy."
Hamas is a Sunni group, as a matter of
fact, but it's funded 93% of its
funding, $350 million comes from the
Islamic Republic of Iran. His bala was
created by the Islamic Republic of Iran
for a for for more than 20 years. Bashar
al-Assad was a client who depended upon
the Shiite clergy in Iran to certify
that the Alawites were bonafide Muslims
so that he could stay in power in Syria.
He was totally beholden as a result to
the Iranian regime. He was a client of
the Iranian regime. And you know, you
also say, well, the IEA said that
they're not getting nuclear weapons. As
a matter of fact, in a May 31st, 2025
report, which is what, almost 3 weeks
ago, oh, this must be outdated. The s
Iran is significantly increased
production and accumulation of
highlyenriched uranium, the only
non-uclear weapon state to produce such
nuclear material. This is a matter of
serious concern. And the IAEA also said
that they've accumulated 881 pounds of
uranium enriched to 60% which far
exceeds what is needed for civilian
energy production and is close to
weapons grade material. So you've got
Yeah, I go read and now go now read the
conclusion. Now read the conclusion of
the latest report. Read it. Read the
whole thing. You want to read it right
now on the air? Let's read the
conclusion. The Oh, the conclusion takes
back that they're enriching uranium at
60%. Come on. No, no, no. See, this is
the this is how they're selling this
lie, Matt. Yes, nobody's arguing that
they're enriching at 60%. They've gone
up to the level of having a latent
nuclear deterrent. They are not the
first country who's ever done this. And
yes, that that is true. It is higher
than what they need for their their
civilian energy needs. Well, do you
believe, Dave, do you believe that to
that degree ought to be deterred or
allowed? Listen, listen. I think again
these questions are I don't like uh the
spread of nuclear weapons at all and I
don't sure should they be deterred. I
think there would be a great way to
deter them by making a deal. I think
that would be very possible. I think the
Iranians have demonstrated that they
want to make a deal. Donald Trump seemed
to be signaling he wanted to make a
deal. It's kind of unclear now what his
true uh intent was, but then they threw
in the idea that you have to get rid of
all your centrifuges and all your
uranium and and the Iranians weren't
going to go along with that. And so,
yeah, I think a reasonable deal could be
struck here where Iran doesn't get
nuclear weapons. But even if they had
them, that doesn't mean we should launch
a regime change war there. Now, this is
just madness. It's there's no concrete
plan. You have no plan for who the new
leader is going to be. You have no plan
how to avoid it. We're going to get to
that. We're going to get to that, but I
want to stay on the on the nuclear
development real quick. Robert Robert,
you said in your opening statement, I
wrote down the words precisely that Iran
was working on nuclear weapons and and
that struck me as a broad statement. So,
I I want to pin this down like how close
does a country have to be a hostile
country to nuclear weapons and their
ambitions or their hopes or their works
like to justify a regime change war?
Well, look, Ali Akbar Hashimi Raf
Sanjani, president of Iran from 1989 to
1997, December 2001, he says that if a
day comes when the world of Islam is
duly equipped with the arms that Israel
has in possession, which of course he
was referring to a nuke, then the
application of an atomic bomb would not
leave anything in Israel, but the same
thing would just produce damages in the
Muslim world. So Rafson Johnny was
saying we can destroy Israel completely
and retaliatory fire would only harm us
to a certain extent but not completely.
So he was obviously thinking about an
aggressive war of destruction of Israel.
As Kamune said on May 17th, a month ago,
the Zionist regime, which is the
dangerous and lethal cancerous tumor of
this region, must undoubtedly be removed
and it will be. This cancerous tumor
language is a recurring theme in Iranian
rhetoric. It goes back to Kulmani. So is
that rhetoric sufficient? Are you taking
the position in this debate that one's
rhetoric can rise to a point around
destruction and nuclear annihilation to
justify a regime change war or or do
there have to be other actions that that
that bring? have to be other actions and
there are we have the enrichment of
uranium beyond the need for but beyond
what is needed for civilian purposes. So
you already have so is that it is that
is that the answer once a country starts
enriching uranium beyond civilian
purposes if they're a hostile country
that justifies regime change. Well,
Matt, that you didn't get my whole
statement because I didn't say we should
go in. We should en enable Israel in any
way that they need and if a regime
change happens, we should support it.
The crown prince, this is a very
different situation from Iraq and
Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, it was a
total mess from the beginning. It was
wrongly conceived, wrongly executed,
wrongly concluded. I wrote a book about
it. Uh, who lost Afghanistan? In Iran,
it's a very different situation because
you've got people who remember growing
up in a secular westernstyle republic.
They remember life outside an Islamic
regime. I was 17 when the Islamic
Revolution happened. There are plenty of
people who are my age in Iran and who
have told their kids about what life was
like before the Islamic Revolution. And
these people have a leader. The crown
prince is ready. He has offered to come
in and be a caretaker ruler and
establish a constitutional republic or
whatever the Iranian people decide.
There was nobody like that in Iran. What
do you think the odds are of a
constitutional republic emerging in
Iran? Do you think they're better than
50%. Robert? Well, what was that? Yeah.
And and I'll go to Dave with the same
question. We're going to ask this
question. What do you think the
percentage chances that a constitutional
republic emerges out of regime change in
Iran? Give a give a number percentage to
that, Robert. probably 30 or 40 because
well I want Dave's response too. you you
laid out the argument uh David Smith got
just the opposite situation from Saddam
Hussein and the toppling of Saddam
because Saddam was already a secular
ruler and there were a lot of people who
thought he is not legitimate because he
doesn't rule by Islamic law and when he
was toppled then they saw their chance
and they established ISIS and
implemented Islamic law in the Sunni
regions and in Iran it's just the
opposite. Did you know that there was a
survey a couple years ago of the Iranian
people who were supposed to be 99% Okay,
we're gonna get hold on. We're gonna get
to where the where the Iranian people
are in a moment. Only 40. Hold on. But
we're before we get to the Iranian
people, I want to get to this notion of
what the government looks like. You've
presented this concept that there is a
crown prince ready to come in and and
rule the country and you say 30 40% that
would go well. Dave Smith, I'm guessing
you don't agree.
Yeah. I mean, look, let me just say I
just want to respond to a couple things
there and then I will answer that
whatever percentage I would give it. Um,
the first of all, again, just going to
this like the idea that you're even
going to say the chance or the rhetoric.
I mean, how many of America how many
American politicians have said like the
craziest things including John McCain
and Hillary Clinton talking about wiping
Iran off the face of the map herself,
right? I forget her exact words, but it
was something like that. John McCain
constantly saying it. Donald Trump in
tweets and in all types of bravado talk
has made all types of comments about
violence like you've never seen before.
But nobody takes that as a serious
policy. Like we really just what you
know what I'm saying? Like nobody takes
that as a serious policy until the other
night when he tweeted for everyone to
evacuate Tyrron. Now that's like a real
type threat. But for us to even be
talking about like they holler this or
they chant that is just completely
beside the point. Again, this is weapons
of mass destruction all over again. All
the intelligence says they don't have a
bomb. That our own CIA said that since
2007, they've made the political
decision not to acquire a bomb. We just
got that reaffirmed with more in
intelligence last week. There was
another report that said the same thing.
So that's number one. After this, look,
I'll concede this. I I don't know, by
the way, exactly what the percentage
would be. I tend my gut instinct is it's
much much lower than that. Um and and I
do find it to be such an unbelievable
insult. I just can't even believe we're
having this debate that we start the
terror war to get al-Qaeda and then it
turns into spread democracy and at this
point in it Matt 25 years later you
understand we got to support the
al-Qaeda guy who just took over Syria
and now we got to spread monarchy to
Iran. It's just such an insult insult to
the intelligence of the American people.
But I will say this, I'll grant you I'll
maybe meet you in the middle here and I
think maybe we could have some agreement
on this area. I will grant you that
perhaps it is true what you're saying
and some of the other hawks say as well
that Iran is a better candidate for
regime change. Perhaps the the odds are
a little higher that it would work out
than it would in Iraq. I'd probably put
the odds at like say 1% in Iraq and like
5% here, but whatever. Let's say the
odds are higher. The flip side to that
is that Iran is also tougher. This is a
country three times the size of Iraq.
This is a government who has maintained
power and much more tight control over
their country. They're a they're a
bigger economy. They have a much more
sophisticated military. They have an
ability. Look, even what we've just seen
in Israel already, see, we're used to
picking on real puny third world
countries. So, we're not used to this,
but they just hit Israel back and killed
some people there. Now, I'm not I don't
know how much they have in the tank, but
they certainly at least have a little
bit more than this and they can touch
perhaps us or Israel. And then the other
thing is the terrain there is much
harder to fight on. And then the other
thing is that if your percentage doesn't
work out and one of these maniacs seizes
control of the government and it's a
much worse situation than that, you got
to consider the potential that we're
getting dragged into something
catastrophic here that's going to cost
another $2 trillion and get another
500,000 people killed. And so I don't
know. Do you guys after the last 25
years not have any sense of concern
about this of taking this risk? Let me
let me 40% chance. You made it a 40%
chance. Yeah. Hold on. Hold on. Dave,
Dave, I I want to I want to push back on
this because I've I've heard this
argument as well. Well, us striking Iran
doesn't really bring us to that level of
entanglement and involvement that
mirrors Iraq or Afghanistan or even
Libya. This can be more akin to the
Solommani strike. A lot of the people I
like and listen to like Grand Paul were
critical of the Solommani strike, but it
didn't drag us into extended conflict
with Iran. it reset deterrence and
everyone rolled on their way for a few
years. Uh do you think Dave Smith that
there's any validity to the argument
that this can be a kind of one and done?
Go strike some nuclear facilities, fly
home, and then uh and then hope that it
doesn't go beyond that. Well, I
certainly hope so. And I certainly hope
Donald Trump uh President Trump comes to
his senses and and you know what I mean
pulls back from this. I think that uh
hopefully at this point he still could
do that. I don't see any signal that
that is the case. And I think that we
should be honest with ourselves and make
no mistake about this, that this is a
regime change war already. And that that
has been Israel's goal here the entire
time. They've admitted it in their own
words over and over and over again.
Netanyahu has testified before Congress
and urged us to go overthrow the
government in Iran. This is their goal.
They know that they don't have nuclear
weapons. This is all the the culmination
of the clean break strategy. General
Wesley Clark told us there were seven
countries they wanted to take out and
this is the seventh one. They're going
in to take this country out. Like I
don't know how anybody can even argue
with this at this point. And so that's
why the argument here is what are we
getting ourselves into? And how risky is
another regime change war for a country
that poses absolutely no threat to us?
This is a country that is that again
there is no need for us to do this. This
is a complete and obvious war of
aggression by Israel with American
assistance and a war of choice. We
simply don't have to. Look, Benjamin
Netanyahu has been telling me since I
was 7 years old that Iran is 1 to 3
years away. Hey guys, do you think he
got it wrong when he said that for the
last 30 plus years? Or was he lying? Or
was he lying so that America would go
overthrow the government he wants
overthrown? I think we have some of
that. I I I I'd like to I'd like to get
Robert's response to to some of those
claims uh by by the current prime
minister who had been in and out of
Israel's government for quite some time.
Let's go ahead and play that clip. If
not stopped, Iran could produce a
nuclear weapon in a very short time. It
could be a year. It could be within a
few months. They have the wherewithal,
the stored up preserved knowledge to
make a bomb very quickly uh if they
wanted to do it. Iran is so dangerous.
weeks away from having the file material
for an entire arsenal of nuclear bombs.
They're very close. They're 6 months
away from being about 90% of having the
rich uranium for an atom bomb. Iran is
gearing up to have to produce 25 bombs,
atomic bombs a year, 250 bombs in a
decade. Ladies and gentlemen, time is
running out. Iran will be capable of
producing alone, without importing
anything, nuclear bombs within 3 to 5
years.
You're joining us in the Zero Hedge
debates. We're here with Robert Spencer,
director of Jihad Watch, and Dave Smith,
host of Part of the Problem. So, the
question to you, Robert, does the prime
minister have any credibility?
Yeah, absolutely. Because the fact is
that it's not just either he's right,
and obviously he was wrong, or he's
lying. There's a third choice. And the
third choice revolves around the fact
that there have been numerous strange
mysterious accidents that befell Iranian
nuclear scientists, computer foul-ups in
Iranian nuclear facilities. Uh, a lot of
this has been blamed on MSAD. MSAD, of
course, has not taken any explicit
credit for it, but it is altogether
possible that the Iranian nuclear uh
adventure has been stymied at several
points by the Israelis. Uh and that is
why the why not just keep doing that
instead of instead of a regime change
war. Why don't we just keep doing those
things? Those sound great. That would be
great if that it can be handled that
way. Then I'm all for it. I don't
understand
men because I'm not talking about straw
man some sort of
Yeah, it's a straw man to say okay. This
is the most dishonest to Iran because
that is not what I'm arguing and that is
not there is no reason I'm not holding
at this point. Yeah. I want to clarify
your argument, Robert. You're saying
that you're not advocating the position
that we ought to deploy troops to the
streets of Thran today. But are you are
you sensitive to the argument that our
involvement in Syria where a lot of
Americans were mangled, killed, that
that began with 40 military advisers? Do
do you do you worry about America's
history of slow walking or sleepwalking
into some of these wars? Yeah, except
for one thing, and that is that Trump is
aware of this. Trump, for all the
rhetoric that's been going on the last
few days, is not George W. Bush. lessons
have been learned from Iraq and
Afghanistan. Remember his devastating
exchange with Jeb Bush back in 2015, I
guess it was. And the fact is that Trump
has been consistent all through these
years of saying he's not going to allow
Iran to get nukes while at the same time
rightly excoriating the Bush
administration and Obama as well for
engaging in this pointless and fruitless
mission creep and nation building. And
so why is it impossible to believe that
he intends to take out Iran's nuclear
program or is willing to do so if it
comes to that? But that does not mean
that he's going to go in with some
Bushian adventure and try to give
democracy to the Iranians. Well, Robert,
how do we stop Israel from a
decapitation campaign if we're uh
bombing nuclear facilities? What what's
the leverage we have over them at that
point? Well, okay. If Israel undertakes
a decapitation campaign, you've also got
to reckon with the possibility that the
Iranian people might undertake a
decapitation campaign. You know that it
was it was several years ago now, as a
matter of fact, a full soccer stadium,
looks like 50 70,000 people in Iran was
chanting long live Resa who was the
father of the deposed Sha of Iran. He
was the sha in the 1930s. And that kind
of open defiance of the Islamic regime
and disgust with the Islamic regime also
combined with the fact that as I was
trying to say before that so many
Iranians where it's officially 90%
Shiite Muslim and 95 to 99% Muslim in
general and actually only 40% of
Iranians now identify as Muslims is an
indication of the deep disgust that the
Iranian people themselves have for this
regime. There was nothing like that in
Iraq or Afghanistan. And both of those
were wrongheaded and stupid from the
beginning. This is a very different
situation with a very different
president. And the idea that he's just
going to blunder into making all the
same mistakes that George W. Bush, who
he knows was a fool and has said was a
fool, made, there's just no reason to
assume that. I I I certainly hope so.
There there is the argument that we've
that we've heard in uh other campaigns
in Afghanistan and Iraq that we would be
greeted as liberators and it seems
Robert's making that argument now. Dave
Smith, uh do you see any challenges with
that? Well, let me just I I got to
respond to a bunch of this stuff, but
yeah, of course there's a million
challenges with that. But um number one,
I wasn't strawmaning your position. Um I
didn't claim that your position is to
send boots on the ground. That's what a
straw man would be. What I said is that
your position has an unacceptable risk
of being dragged into a situation where
we have boots on the ground. So, it's
not a straw man of your issue. But I
just can't believe like the the the
hardest pivot I ever saw in my life from
you watching that video of Netanyahu to
basically saying a couple scientists
dropped dead and so I could imagine a
world where they would have had nuclear
weapons. He said with certainty they're
6 months away from being at 90%. Just
bald-faced lies. And then by the way, I
mean just Matt, as as basic human beings
watching this here, you're telling me
that by the by the 19th time you've
gotten it wrong. You don't go now.
Granted, I have been wrong about this 18
times in a row. But no, with certainty,
he says there's 6 months away. And any
every honest human being knows he was
lying to try to lure America into a
regime change that he wanted. And why on
earth should we do it on behalf of it?
It's just so crazy. I I just couldn't
believe that you completely got away
from that. Um it's it's like right there
in front of you. The the lies are being
told. It's the same thing over and over
again. I'm sorry. What did you what
question did you want me to answer,
Matt? Well, I I I think you got
somewhere around there. I'm I'm going to
ask you this question. Some say that the
modern nature of warfare, Dave, is such
that everyone kind of has their proxy
forces, right? A lot of the Sunni
monarchies had their proxy forces in
ISIS. Uh, we've heard Robert talk about
Iran's proxy forces. And so sometimes
the neocons make this argument. Well,
America needs a proxy force and we've
been paying for Israel for so long. Why
not just use Israel to do America's
dirty work and give us plausible
deniability? They get the return rockets
instead of us. Actually, America first
would mean giving Israel the weapons so
that they could execute this campaign
with great effectiveness.
Well, there's it's it's not a war that's
in America's interests. So, I don't see
what the and and I believe we've had
plenty of proxies. I mean, half the half
the um the world is American sock
puppets. We're we we prop up Jordan and
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates and Egypt and Israel and I
mean, you know, Yeah. Okay. It's the the
common theme amongst the countries that
people are always advocating regime
change against is that they're the few
ones that aren't American sock puppets.
So, I don't even know what people are
talking about, man. And this whole
thing, all this whole experiment of
America being super involved in the
Middle East. It is it listen, it's like
I can't even believe people can argue
for this anymore. What has it brought
us? It's bankrupted the country. We got
thousands of our bravest young boys who
have been who have been killed. tens of
thousands of them who have been maimed
and injured. Tens more thousands who
have blown their brains out in the
aftermath of these wars. And we're
sitting here talking about again what
whether we're going to launch an illegal
aggressive war of choice or help the
Israelis launch an illegal aggressive
war of choice. This is I don't know.
This is absolute madness. There is no we
don't need to do this. And if you want
to look there and say look you know the
argument that well Donald Trump said
some good stuff about it back then. So
there it's like, yeah, Donald Trump just
demanded a complete surrender. Dude, I
don't know. It's not looking like he's
he's pursuing that policy. And I think
we should be trying to do everything in
our power to urge him to to get back to,
you know, his previous position. By the
way, that was kind of my point when I
said that he was betraying MAGA,
whatever MAGA means to you. The point is
that he's gotten away from that great
stuff he was saying, and now he's
demanding a complete surrender. Sir, you
demand complete surreners from nations
you are at war with. What are we doing
here? Yeah. I I want to talk about the
cost of that war with Robert. Uh one of
the things that has given a lot of
millennials resentment over the regime
change wars in the Middle East of yester
year is the cost. And so I wondered if
you'd given any thought to like what's
an amount of money that is worth it to
the to the American taxpayer to cause a
regime change in Iraq. I'm sorry.
that uh this is a big thing that has
been not paid sufficient attention to.
The fact is that Osama bin Laden
actually launched the 911 attacks in
order to [__] America economically
and that was why he chose the target of
the World Trade Center thinking that it
was the center of the economic activity
of the United States. And so there and
there's no doubt that he had tremendous
success with this and the American
economy has suffered tremendously in all
kinds of ways from the uh war on terror
so-called which was uh wrongly conceived
and wrongly pursued from the beginning.
But on the other hand, you have to
balance economic considerations against
considerations of survival. And Dave was
saying, uh, are we going to go to war
for Israel because Netanyahu wants us to
go to war? Even if Netanyahu and Israel
didn't exist, you have a regime that, as
I showed earlier, has repeatedly
attacked the United States, is on a war
footing with the United States, has been
since 1979,
has incredibly
hostile
stances toward American policies, has
kidnapped Americans, tortured Americans,
killed Americans. Uh, meanwhile, the
rhetoric, yes, is is is frankly about
destroying America and this is something
that the But how much money, Robert? Is
it worth a trillion dollars to
assassinate Trump? And so, we got it.
We've heard we've heard No, no. I We've
heard you lay out the list of of
criticisms. The question is, what is it
worth financially to you? Well, survival
is worth a lot to me. Yeah. Do you think
do you think that toppling the Iranian
regime is necessary for American
survival? If they attack if they uh have
a nuclear weapon and they are attacking
Americans, but just as you find them
now, as you find them today, however
that is, do you think it's worth a
trillion dollars in US spending to
change the regime there to change? You
mean just like willy-nilly out of the
blue with them just minding their own
business? That's not the situation that
we're in. Well, no, I I didn't say that.
I I said in the situation you find it
now. not not not an idyllic situation or
not a catastrophic situation. I do not
think that the United States should act
right now to either attack Iran or
change the regime in Iran. If Israel
acts, we should support them. How much
money Iran could well attack? And if
Iran attacks, we should be prepared to
defend ourselves. Is there any limit on
the amount of money, resources, or
material you would give Israel in this
battle?
Um, well, you know, the money I is very
bad because the people in Washington
behave as if the money never runs out.
And so I'm not really in favor of giving
out money in general. But when you are
coming to issues of survival of the
United States, then you're going to have
to shell out. At the same time, we have
tremendous economic problems in the
United States that I believe ought to be
addressed and foreign aid ought to be
stopped as a Sure. So, so are you
actually making the argument that this
is a war of our survival? That we won't
survive if Israel doesn't overthrow the
Iranian government? No, that's not what
I'm saying at all. So, how is this a war
of survival for us? They attack the
United States, it's a very different
situation. C can I just say when you say
attack the United States is imminent
just I'm sorry I don't mean to interrupt
just a clarifying question I I just want
to ask you a clarifying question because
I just don't when you say the United
States of America we might be talking
about different things like I'm talking
about the geographic area between Mexico
and Canada like the middle section of
North America when you say they've
attacked the United States of America
when has Iran attacked the United States
of America well if you limit it to that
then you can talk about the
assassination attempt on Mas al-Nad the
Iranian dissident in New York a few
years back. You can talk about the
attack on the uh I believe it was a
Saudi diplomat in a restaurant in
Washington few years before that. You
can talk about they made claims. Did
they ever even demonstrate that that was
Iran? What's that? That is Oh, that is
such nonsense, dude. There is no proof
that Iran was trying You're telling me
Iran was trying to assassinate Donald
Trump? Matt Gates, you know the man.
Okay. You're telling me Donald Trump,
they tried to assassinate him and Donald
Trump's response was to negotiate. His
response was to negotiate with the I'm
going to say this. A Manhattan federal
prosecutors in November 2024 charged
Farad Shakiri with plotting to kill
Trump before the election at the behest
of the Iranian government and the
Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps. They
ordered an operative to assassinate
Trump. His name is Faraj Shakiri. You
can look him up. He's been charged. Uh,
I don't think Manhattan Federal Roberts
absolutely no proof. Did we did we also
have sort of a revenge plot in the Iraq
war on an assassination attempt? As I
recall, you know, uh, there was this
belief that an individual had motivated
an assassination attempt against George
HW Bush and and that that was uh, was
something that inspired his son, Dom,
right? So, Dom was supposed to have done
that and so W wanted to do it. But this,
you know, because similar to you, that
he's Trump once again. And so, look,
also there have been the fact that the
Iranian leadership has said that they
want to assassinate Trump. Not Spencer,
not Benjamin Netanyahu, but the Amir Ali
[__] Zad, who was the head of the
Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps
Aerospace Force 2023 says, "Allah
willing, we're looking to kill Trump and
Pompeo and military commanders who
issued the order to kill Solommani
should be killed." Aulbite news agency
January 23rd 2021 the Supreme Leaders
website posted a photo montage of Trump
playing golf under the shadow of a drone
with calls to avenge the death of
Solommani. Okay, sir. Sir, how are you
possibly not advocating that we declare
war on Iran right now? How is Donald
Trump such a wimp that his response to
this they're trying to murder him and
his response was to negotiate? So, how
you should you should support America
declaring war on Iran right now.
Everybody should. They tried to murder
the president, right? By because the
fact is that Trump is a man who makes
deals. He sees he's he's for all the
talk about him being a narcissistic
egoomaniac or whatever. He is actually
extremely pragmatic and all right. Hold
on, hold on, hold on. Let me get just a
moment. So, he understands there are
more important considerations at play
here. If he can pacify this situation
with the deal, he's willing to do it.
But I saw the video of Trump being
killed by the drone that the Supreme
Leader posted. You can't tell me it was
fabricated. It was right there on on on
his own. We We are out of time. We are
out of time, but I do want to get a
final word from each of you. I'm going
to give you each about a one minute uh
closing statement. We'll begin with Dave
Smith. Yeah. I mean, again, as I I was
getting at there, Iran has never
attacked the United States of America,
and this is just like 2003 all over
again. All this war propaganda, I get
all these lies will fade away. Every
single war starts this way. You remember
at the beginning of the Ukraine war when
there was the Ghost of Kiev and the war
was going to be uh fought with sanctions
alone and that was going to drive the
Russians out. You remember how the
Afghan army was going to hold the
country together? They told us that for
20 years. You remember when the surge
was going to work in 2007 and Dick
Cheney said the insurgencies in its
final throws and then it just went on
for years and years and years and
hundreds of thousands of more people
died. You remember when they said
mission accomplished? You remember when
they said they had weapons of mass
destruction? It's all the same thing
again. This is so naked right in front
of all of us. We are choosing to engage
in another aggressive war of choice to
overthrow another regime in the Middle
East. That's what's going on right now.
And it is absolute madness for anybody
to support this. It is just the last
thing that the United States of America
uh needs. And all of this hyperbole
about how we will be finished is absurd.
Robert Spencer, your final word. Yeah,
once again, this is a straw man because
this is not what I'm saying. I'm not in
favor of a war of choice for regime
change in the Middle East. I'm saying
that Iran poses a very real threat. It
is a nuclear threat. This is abundantly
documented by the IAEA and others. The
foreign minister of France recently was
talking about how Iran poses an imminent
threat. He doesn't have any reason to be
uh uh in the pocket of Israel. As a
matter of fact, the French government
under Mcron has been quite hostile to
Israel. And so the idea that this is
some kind of war for Israel and a repeat
of 2003 is completely out of focus. Uh
Trump above all has learned the lessons
of 2003 and the and the drastic mistakes
of Iraq and Afghanistan. We're not
talking about boots on the ground. If
regime change does come in Iran, it's
most likely to come from the Iranian
people themselves and we should be
supporting them wholeheartedly in every
way that we possibly can. Robert Spencer
is the director of Jihad Watch. Dave
Smith is host of Part of the Problem
podcast. Zero Hedge puts on these
debates as their Zero Hedge debates on
Matt Gates, host of the Matt Gates show
on One America News. Thank you all for
joining us. Now, a word about our
sponsors. There's some real momentum in
the fight for affordable health care.
President Trump
signed a powerful executive order to
drive down prescription drug prices
across the board. But here's the thing.
While the bureaucracy drags its feet,
one pharmacy isn't waiting around. All
family pharmacy is stepping up now with
real action to support the president's
vision and give Americans more control
over their healthcare. From now through
the end of June, they're running a
summer sale. Get 20% off sitewide. And
here's what I love. No insurance needed.
They connect you right with licensed
doctors in all 50 states and they ship
prescriptions directly to your door
fast. Whether you're looking for
ivormectin, hydroxychloricquin,
antibiotics, emergency kits, or just
your daily meds, it's time to stock up
and save. If you believe in being
prepared and you believe in medical
freedom, this is your pharmacy. Head
over to allfamilyfarm pharmacy.com/matt
and use promo code matt for 20% off your
order. That's allfamilyfarm
pharmacy.com/matt.
Code Matt 20. Let's push back on big
pharma and make America healthy again.
Want to see more great videos like this?
Click on the link below to subscribe to
Oen Live and watch Dan Ball's Real
America and the Matt Gate Show on Dish
Channel 212. Tune in, subscribe, and
watch today.
I'm so excited when we get our
Merryweather Farm shipments in. You get
a beautiful piece of ribeye. Look, look
at that marbling. Now, I take it out of
the package, let it get down to room
temperature. All I've got on here is a
little salt, a little pepper, and then a
little avocado oil. And then I've had my
pan preheating with a little oil.
Head
to Merryweather